# BOX OFFICE PREDICTION
by **Utkarsh Dubey, Bhaskar Gupta, Robin Garg and Krishna Jalan** <br>
**Machine Learning (CSE343, ECE343)** at **Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi**. 

## About Our Project
The definition of success of a film is relative, some videos are called successful based on their worldwide gross income, and some movies may not shine in the business part but can be called successful for good critics' review and popularity. Here we are considering a movie's box office success based on its profit only. This project proposes a decision support system for the movie investment sector using machine learning techniques. We have collected valuable data regarding movies and have tried to find correlations between certain features that can have impacts on the total revenue generated by the movie. Proper graph analysis of these features’ dependencies has also been undertaken. Once relevant features were extracted, we applied different machine learning approaches namely linear regression, decision tree and random forest so far in order to minimize the RMSE, hence finding a model that fits the collected dataset well.

## Dataset Description
We used the official API of TMBd to fetch the details of movies to form our dataset. Our dataset contains over 10,000 movies having details of each movie like title, genre, budget, cast, crew, Release_Date, etc. There were around 22 features we were able to fetch. The target variable for our study is the revenue generated by the movie.

## Models Used
- Linear Regression
- Decision Tree
- Random Forest
- KNN Regressor
- MLP Regressor

## Results We Got
- Revenue shows a positive correlation with “rating_count”, “popularity” and “budget” and a negative correlation with “IsTitleDifferent”.
- The best model came out to be random forest with the r2 score of 0.98 followed by decision tree with an r2 score of 0.95 then followed by linear regression with an r2 score of 0.71 then MLP Regressor with an r2 score of 0.64 last but not the least KNN with r2 score of 0.60 

## How To Run The Code
- Clone Repo
- Run ``` pip install -r requirements.txt ```
- Run the jupyter notebook

## Point Of Contact
- utkarsh19213@iiitd.ac.in
- bhaskar19237@iiitd.ac.in
- robin19092@iiitd.ac.in
- krishna21001@iiitd.ac.in

## Final Report
[Click Here](https://github.com/Robin-garg23/ML_Project/blob/main/reports/MLProjectFinalReport_G35.pdf)


